In 2016, Edward Tufte was the keynote speaker at the Microsoft Machine Learning and Data Science Summit. 
He gave a talk entitled, "The Future of Data Analysis" during which he spoke about data analysis, critical thinking, and learning from the past. 
Tufte incorporated Galileo who in his opinion, was one of the greatest data analysts and critical thinkers. He used a telescope to obtain vast quantities of information
about astronomy and based his findings on visible evidence rather than pure speculation made from afar. Data analysis is about turning data into conclusions using evidence 
and inference. 

The analysis and presentation of the data is meant to assist reasoning and guide the viewer's cognitive understanding about the content they are exposed to. The fundamental
and underlying task is to explain and make smart comparisions using the data, not the analysis. Tufte emphasized many quotes from analysts such as Tukey in addition to his own. 
Succinct messages are more memorable than long and drawn out explanations. He stated how important it is to learn from others and their excellence. Try to understand
what makes their work excellent and use the past to push the future. With the advancement of hardware and open source information and data, big data analysis is now possible. 
However, just because we have access to vast quantities of information doesn't mean that every bit of it is meaningful or representative of the real world. Understand and 
analyze the data in multiple ways. One display cannot accurately optimize the data. 

A quote from John Tukey that says "data may not contain the answer and if you torture the data long enough, it will tell you anything," along with the "first principle
is that you must not foll yourself and you are the easiest person to fool," quote from Feyman, are paramount points. The data should not be manipulated into telling any 
desired story. The data has to be represented honestly and able to be replicated. Good practice is to pre-specify the models or tables that will be used to generate
the findings from the data, not after the analysis. This forethought aids in over analysis of the data and the prevention of erroneous findings. 
Data scientists must look beyond the data, into the real world, observe or understand the collection methods because people cannot keep their own score. 
