Geoff McGhee created a video entitled "Journalism in the Age of Data" during a Knight Journalism Fellowship at Stanford in 2009 to 2010. The video appears as a documentary, 
with a series of interviews of numerous data visualization visionaries, computer and research scientists from prominent names such as IBM and the New York Times. The video is meant to educate
and highlight the common errors when editing and displaying data. In this digital age, information is abundant and feedback is almost instantaneous. Humans are 
meant to understand things visually and when you attempt to display your data and interpretations to others, it needs to be comprehensible and composed with the importance of the 
message in mind. 

People have access to free, raw data from a plethora of sites, such as data.gov. The data in its raw format needs to be manipulated, analyzed, and presented in order to extract 
the pertinent details. As mentioned, data visualization is more like an art and puts the data into context for a reader. In a fast paced world, we need to absorb information quickly
and good visualization has the ability to do that. The concept of interactive graphics, a data slideshow, it a way to introduce an enormous amount of information in small amounts. 
It allows the user to take small nibbles rather than huge bites. If the user is still hungry, they can receive more to whet their appetite by way of added details. 

Applications, such as google charts or swivel, allows anyone with a computer to create graphics and turn data into a visual display. The problem is that they can turn out a nice graphic
but it is completely meaningless or incomprehensible. Technology makes the process easier but it isn't simply clicking buttons. Data visualization is indeed an art and exploratory 
data analysis should lead to a qualitative investigation which in turn leads to graphics that tell a story and accurately convey the data to the target demographic. A design has
to have a purpose, a point. Technology combined with knowledge about data visualization is a powerful combination. There are so many options, so many programs and so many 
new ideas constantly emerging and evolving. People like Amanda Cox share discoveries and new ways of thinking and the sky is the limit. 




